about.md, before:

---
layout:    post
title:     Me
permalink: /me/
comments:  false
---

Hi :open_hands: !!! Nice to meet you :blush: !!!

I’m Roman Martin, an IT professional with almost twenty years of experience in the software development industry.
Highly qualified and experienced professional specialized in the areas of integration, modernization
and migration of applications towards Open Source software.

Currently I am working as Principal Middleware Architect in Red Hat Professional Services helping our customers to
achieve their goals. Focused in technical designing, providing reference architectures, executing proof of concepts,
performance enhancements, writing technical documentation, giving workshops, reviewing automation's, processes ... 

I like to share my knowledge and experience writing articles or giving presentations in meetups. You could
review my [articles](/articles) and [presentations](/meetups). Always ready!!

If you are interested in my background, skills or other professional references,
my [LinkedIn profile](https://www.linkedin.com/in/jromanmartin/) is the right place.

Opinions expressed in this blog are my own and do not necessarily reflect that of the company I work for.

Cheers :beers: ! 

Roman ;)

Commit message:

:seedling: Link to GitHub profile

about.md, after:

---
layout:    post
title:     Me
permalink: /me/
comments:  false
---

Hi :open_hands: !!! Nice to meet you :blush: !!!

I’m Roman Martin, an IT professional with almost twenty years of experience in the software development industry.
Highly qualified and experienced professional specialized in the areas of integration, modernization
and migration of applications towards Open Source software.

Currently I am working as Principal Middleware Architect in Red Hat Professional Services helping our customers to
achieve their goals. Focused in technical designing, providing reference architectures, executing proof of concepts,
performance enhancements, writing technical documentation, giving workshops, reviewing automation's, processes ...

I like to share my knowledge and experience writing articles or giving presentations in meetups. You could
review my [articles](/articles) and [presentations](/meetups). Always ready!!

If you are interested in my background, skills or other professional references,
my [LinkedIn profile](https://www.linkedin.com/in/jromanmartin/) is the right place.

Last but not least, my [GitHub profile](https://github.com/rmarting) is updated with multiple repositories with my demos,
examples, or just other fancy technical stuff. Enjoy it!!!

Opinions expressed in this blog are my own and do not necessarily reflect that of the company I work for.

Cheers :beers: !!!

Roman ;)
